•  Home 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

››Manhattan Active® Omni 

››Store 

››Process & Configuration Guides 

››Store Common 

››Store RFID 

Store RFID 

Last updated:  06/30/2025 

•  Overview 

•  Handheld 

•  Overhead 

•  Enablement 

•  Tagged and Non-Tagged Items 

•  Multiple Organization 

•  Cross Organization 

•  Handheld 

•  RFID Reader Settings 

•  Bluetooth RFID Reader Management 

•  RFID Reader Trigger Behavior 

•  Pickup Orders 

•  Shipment Orders 

•  Receiving 

•  Store Count 

•  Pullback/Transfer 

•  Pullback/Transfer - Locate Item 

  
•  Store-Initiated Transfer 

•  Adjust Inventory 

•  Replenishment 

•  Picking - Locate Item 

•  View Inventory 

•  View Inventory - Locate Item 

• 

Inventory Runner - Product Requests - Locate Item 

•  Encode RFID Tags 

•  Unit Inventory Outbound Events 

•  Exceptions 

•  Custom Update - Unit Inventory 

•  Life Cycle of Unit Inventory 

•  Unit Inventory UI 

•  Overhead 

•  Overhead Events 

•  Overhead Receiving 

•  Store Count 

•  Pick Path Optimization 

•  View on Map 

•  Clustering 

•  Phased RFID Enablement 

•  Order Lookup to support RFID tag-based Returns 

•  Decode Custom EPC Tags 

•  Configuration 

•  Handheld Configuration 

•  Overhead Configuration 

•  Order Lookup to support RFID tag-based Returns Config 

•  Order Lookup to support orders shipped from DC with an EPC 

•  RFID Reader Setting Configuration 

•  Enable Outbound events 

•  Tag Decode Configuration 

•  Troubleshooting 

•  Custom Screens 

•  Custom Devices 

•  Unit Inventory Events 

•  UIs and Entities 

Overview 

Handheld 

Through integration with handheld Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) readers, some 
Store Inventory and Fulfillment operations can be performed using unit-level RFID tags 
where item barcodes would traditionally be scanned. When a supported flow is enabled for 
RFID and the reader is connected, a green RFID indicator appears at the top of the screen 
to notify the user that the flow is operating in RFID mode. These unit-level RFID tags must 
follow GS1's Serialized Global Trade Identification Number (SGTIN) standard and have 96-
bits of memory. 

Configuration determines whether a particular flow (i.e., receiving, packing, etc.) should 
operate in RFID mode. The Store application supports three pre-defined antenna strengths 
- short, medium and long. For flows that are enabled, a default antenna strength is 
configured since for some flows a long read range is desired so the maximum number of 
tags can be read whereas for other flows a shorter range is desired to prevent unwanted 
tags from being read. Based on permissions, associates can temporarily change the 
antenna strength within a flow. The temporary override is reset back to the default once 
they log out of the application. The antenna strength associated with the short, medium 
and long levels are defined as 5 dBm, 27 dBm and 30 dBm, respectively. If you wish to 
adjust the out-of-the-box strengths to different values, contact Manhattan support. 

Zebra handheld readers that are certified with Store Apple and Android devices are 
connected through Bluetooth. Refer to the Certified Technology page for additional 
information. Custom handheld readers are also supported. 

When RFID is enabled, a record exists for each unit in the Unit Inventory table. 

Note: For customers using Apple devices with handheld readers, the devices must be 
running iOS / iPadOS 14 or greater. The Store application asks permission to communicate 
with an RFID reader over Bluetooth when it is first launched for use 

Note: Store RFID supports up to 50,000 units per store across 1000 stores in the network. 

These are the statuses which an EPC can have in the Unit Inventory table: 

• 

InBound: When an item is shipped to a store as part of a shipment for a customer 
order or as store stock but has not yet been received. 

•  Pending Receipt: Designates a tag which has been read by an overhead reader and 
matched to an inbound ASN. Applicable only for stores with overhead readers. 

•  Available: The unit exists in the store and is not reserved for a customer order or 

missing. 

•  Reserved: The unit exists in the store but has been associated with a 

customer, pullback or transfer order. 

•  Missing: If an available item unit is found to be missing during a store count, the 

status of the unit is updated to missing. InBound units are also updated to Missing 
status if the package they belong to is marked as missing. 

•  Departed: The unit status is updated to departed once the ship event occurs for 
ship to address, pullback or transfer orders, after pickup has occurred for pickup 
orders, or after Point of Sale records a sale. 

•  Unexpected: This status is used to denote new tag reads from processes such as 

Store Count or Overhead that do not already exist in the store. New tags read during 
an initial store load are updated to "Available" status once the count is submitted. 
New tags read by other processes such as store count or overhead remain in 
"Unexpected" status until they are read during a functional process such as picking, 
packing, point of sale, etc. 

•  Removed: The unit status is updated to "Removed" when a unit is adjusted using 

a subtraction adjustment type. 

Purge 

Unit Inventory records in "Missing" status, which are untouched for 30 days, are purged. 

Unit Inventory records in "Departed" or "Removed" statuses, which are untouched for 
7 days, are purged. 

Overhead 

In addition to the handheld-based RFID functionality described above, stores with 
overhead RFID readers can leverage those readers to: 

•  Store count - Automatically consider units which were recently detected by 

overhead reader as counted 

•  Receive inventory - Overhead readers can be used to "pre-receive" inventory for a 
store associate to review, reducing the reliance handheld readers to get inventory 
into the store. 

•  View Inventory on Map - Display all units of an item on a map of the store based on 

coordinates sent by the overhead reader. 

•  Pick path optimization - Calculate the best pick path sequence for a picklist based 
on unit coordinates sent by the overhead reader. The associate can view a map 
which shows the travel sequence. 

For more details on how the Store application can work with overhead RFID readers, please 
refer to the Overhead RFID - Pick Path Optimization & View Inventory section. 

Note: If overhead functionality is used, it must be used in conjunction with handheld flows 
since not every flow is enabled for overhead readers. 

Enablement 

If the RFID configuration is enabled for a store function (see Configuration section below), 
the store operates in RFID mode. If RFID is enabled for a flow (such as packing or 
receiving), in most occassions store associates must capture unit-level uniqueness by 
either reading the RFID tag, scanning the Electronic Product Code (EPC) barcode or 
scanning the SGTIN barcode. Barcodes which only have item-level uniqueness (i.e., item 
ID, UPC, EAN, GTIN-14) are not allowed in order to retain integrity in the Unit Inventory 
database.  

The GTIN-14 (Global Trade Identification Number) must also be defined in the Item Master 
for each item. One GTIN-14 value should be defined for each unique UPC (or EAN) barcode 
that is tied to the item. For example, 

• 

• 

If item ID 123 has only one associated UPC barcode 012345678905 that is defined 
in the Item Codes entity, then one GTIN-14 value should be defined in the Item 
Codes entity and would have value 00012345678905 (UPC plus 2 preceding zeros to 
convert to a 14-digit number.) 

If item ID 456 has two associated EAN barcodes (5701234567899 and 
5712234567899), then one GTIN-14 value must be defined for each EAN value in the 
Item Codes entity (with values 05701234567899 and 05712234567899, 
respectively, to convert the 13-digit EANs to 14-digit GTIN-14s.) 

Tagged and Non-Tagged Items 

Store functions which can be enabled for RFID such as (picking, packing, pullbacks, etc.) 
expect that all items in the store are RFID tagged, unless the function is specifically 
mentioned in the list below. The functions below reference the "Is RFID Tagged" attribute in 
the Item Master. If the attribute is set to true and RFID is configured for the function, the 
function operates in RFID mode for that item. Items which are marked as true must have a 
GTIN-14 value defined in the Item Code or Manufacturing entity. 

If the attribute is set to false or null, these functions treat the item as non-RFID tracked. 

Note that if the attribute is set to true, all units of the item must be tagged. 

•  Receiving - Supports receipt of both RFID tagged and non-tagged items. 

See below for further information. 

•  Store count - Supports stores with a mixture of tagged and non-tagged items. Store 
Counts sends supply updates for all those units which have an RFID tag on and 
whose item masters have the required GTIN14 configuration in place, irrespective of 
whether they have the Is RFID Tagged attribute true or false. See below for further 
information. 

•  Adjust inventory - Supports both RFID tagged and non-tagged items. See below for 

further information. 

Note: When a unit's information is persisted in the unit inventory table, the characters in 
the EPC are persisted in the same case as read. If the EPC contains lowercase, it is read as 
lowercase and persisted as lowercase in the unit inventory table and vice versa. It is also 
expected that the case should be the same between the physical tag and the record stored 
in the unit. Any external feeds to unit inventory, if any, should also be in the same case.  

Multiple Organization 

•  Org Column in Unit Inventory table -  The Org that to use to populate an EPC’s record 
in unit inventory table is either updated from the org in the user’s context or with the 
parent org that is configured for location ID in the user’s context. 

•  Unit Inventory MUP UI - If a superuser signs in at parent (brand)level, the EPC can be 

seen by manually changing the org value in the MUP UI dropdown. 

Cross Organization 

Stores can ship the ship to store orders, Pullback orders, and Store-initiated transfer orders 
from one organization's location to another organization's location.  

Refer to the shipping process guide for additional information.  

Refer to the process guide for additional information about the cross-organization feature. 

Handheld 

RFID Reader Settings 

Manhattan Active® Omni allows retailers to pass certain RFID reader settings to the reader 
during RFID flows. Below is the list of RFID settings that can be passed by the Store 
application: 

•  Link Profile Index 

•  Session 

•  Tag Population 

• 

Inventory State 

•  SL Flag 

•  Dynamic Power 

Out of the box base values are provided as seed data which should work well in most RFID 
environments. These settings can be configured at the device type (i.e., RFD8500, RFD40) 
or RFID flow ID level (i.e., Packing, Adjust Inventory, Store Count, etc.) The base seed data 
applies to all device types and flow IDs. 

Refer to the configuration section for more details. 

Bluetooth RFID Reader Management 

Store associates can use the Store app to manage the Bluetooth RFID readers that they 
use. They can view details of the connected RFID reader, connect to a reader and 

disconnect from the currently connected reader. The Bluetooth readers must be previously 
paired to the device to enable the Store app to connect to them. 

View Connected Device Details 

On accessing an RFID-enabled function, if a connection to a Bluetooth reader 
is successfully established, a green RFID indicator is displayed at the top of the UI. When a 
store associate taps on an active connection (green RFID indicator), the details of the 
connected reader including the device name, model, current read range and battery 
level are displayed. Users can adjust the currently configured reader range (antenna 
strength) by tapping on the "ADJUST RANGE" button. Store associates can view the 
connected device details even when the RFID reader is in the barcode mode. When the 
reader is in barcode mode, the range cannot be adjusted. 

Connect and Disconnect 

Store associates can tap on the "AVAILABLE DEVICES" button to manage the Bluetooth 
RFID readers. If a reader is already connected, it is displayed at the top of the list. Reader 
names are displayed as the first seven characters of the device model, followed by the last 
four characters of the device's serial number. Store associates can disconnect from the 
currently connected reader or connect to a reader. If the device is connected to a reader 
and the user wishes to switch to another reader, it is not necessary to disconnect from the 
first reader. The user can directly connect to the second reader. 

On Android devices, all previously paired RFID readers are listed in the "AVAILABLE 
DEVICES" popup. If the store associate tries to connect to a reader which is currently 
unavailable (i.e., out of range or powered off), an error message is displayed. On 
iOS/iPadOS devices, only the readers which are currently connected to the OS and are 
available to be connected are displayed in the list. 

If the device's screen locks and the associate unlocks the device before the Store app 
times out, when returning to the Store app the device automatically attempts to reconnect 
as follows: 

•  For Android, the device will attempt to reconnect to the same reader. 

•  For Apple, the device will attempt to reconnect, but it may not be the same reader 
that they were just connected to based on the way that the Apple OS prioritizes the 
reader list. 

If a reader is not actively connected, a red RFID (inactive) indicator is displayed. The store 
device's Bluetooth needs to be on to enlist the available readers to the user. When a store 

associate taps on an inactive connection (red RFID indicator), a message is displayed if the 
device's Bluetooth is not enabled. 

"ADJUST RANGE", "AVAILABLE DEVICES", "CONNECT", and "DISCONNECT" user actions are 
protected by permission. Refer to the Store Common UI Resources for more information. 

Sublocations 

RFID-enabled stores can count and track their inventory by sublocation. Sublocation 
examples are sales floor, back room and off-site storage. Each of the RFID functions can be 
configured with a default sublocation that is automatically stamped on a unit when an RFID 
function is executed. The default sublocation for each function is explained in the 
respective sections below. Refer to the configuration section for details on how to 
configure a default.  

For stores that track inventory by sublocation, the View Inventory UI obtains some data 
from the Unit Inventory table rather than Inventory Supply. Refer to the View Inventory 
process guide for additional information. 

RFID Reader Trigger Behavior 

For all SIF handheld flows except Store Count, tags are read while the reader's RFID trigger 
is pulled. Once the trigger is released, the reader stops reading and sends the tags it has 
read to the Store application. 

For Store Count, the user pulls and releases the trigger to begin reading tags. Tags are read 
until the trigger is pulled again which stops the reader. While the reader is reading tags, 
it sends those tags to the Store application. 

Pickup Orders 

Store associates can perform picking of pickup orders by reading tags with a handheld 
RFID reader instead of by scanning item barcodes. Tags read during picking are decoded to 
determine which item is being picked. However, EPC IDs are not captured during picking 
but are instead captured as part of a separate capture EPC process. Refer to the Picking 
Process and Capture RFID Tags guides for additional information, as well as 
the Configuration section below. 

Default Sublocation 

If a default sublocation is configured for the Picking - Prepare Pickups flow, it is updated 
for units processed via the RFID Capture Tags process. Refer to the configuration section 
for additional information on setting up the default sublocation. 

Shipment Orders 

The picking and packing of shipment orders can be performed by reading tags with a 
handheld RFID reader instead of by scanning item barcodes. Tags read during picking are 
decoded to determine which item is being picked. However, EPC IDs are not captured 
during picking but are instead captured during packing. Refer to the Picking 
Process and Packing process guides for additional information, as well as 
the Configuration section below. 

Default Sublocation 

If a default sublocation is configured for the Packing flow, it is updated for units processed 
via RFID packing. Refer to the configuration section for additional information on setting up 
the default sublocation. 

Receiving 

Store associates can receive packages for store inventory or customer ship to store orders 
using a handheld RFID reader. Refer to the Receiving process guide for additional 
information about RFID-based receiving as well as the Configuration section below. 

Default Sublocation 

If a default sublocation is configured for the receiving flow, it is updated for units processed 
via RFID receiving. Note that a single default value exists for receipt of both customer 
orders and store inventory. Refer to the configuration section for additional information on 
setting up the default sublocation. 

Store Count 

Store associates can count inventory in the store using handheld RFID readers and can 
also leverage overhead readers if the present in the store. Refer to the Store Count guide for 
additional information about RFID-based store count as well as the Configuration section 
below. 

Counting By Sublocation 

With this feature, inventory can be tracked and counted within predefined areas (or 
sublocations) of the store. If sublocations are defined in the store, the Store count UI 
displays a list of sublocations for the user to select where they are counting. Counting by 
sublocation is used in conjunction with Replenishment functionality. 

Refer to the configuration section for additional information. 

Default Sublocation 

The sublocation is updated based on the sublocation that the user is counting. A default 
sublocation configuration does not exist for store count.  

Pullback/Transfer 

Store associates can pack pullback/transfer orders using a handheld RFID reader.  Refer to 
the Pullback/Transfer process guide for additional information about RFID-based 
pullback/transfer order packing as well as the Configuration section below. 

Pullback/Transfer - Locate Item 

Store associates can utilize a handheld RFID reader if they need assistance locating an 
item during Pullback/Transfer order packing. Based on permissions, a Locate Item action in 
Pullback/Transfer order details UI directs the user to the closest unit of an item based on 
their current location. Visual and audible indicators increase or decrease depending 
on whether the user is moving closer or farther from the unit. A permission-controlled "next 
tag" action allows the associate to find another unit of the same item which directs them to 
the next closest tag based on their current location. 

The "Locate Item” feature offers two modes: single tag mode and multi-tag mode. 

Once the user initiates the Locate item function, the reader first searches for eligible tags 
within its range 

  . This is referred to as multi-tag mode and is accompanied by a rapid beeping sound. Once 
at least one tag is found, the reader locks onto the tag with the strongest signal and begins 
showing the percentage from 0 to 100%. This is referred to as single tag mode and is 
accompanied by a slower-paced beep that changes in frequency as the signal percentage 
increases (faster) or decreases (slower.). 

Note : Tags that exist in the Unit Inventory table in any other status other than "Departed" 
are eligible for locate item. 

 Refer to the Configuration section below for more information as well as the Pullbacks & 
Transfers process guide and for grants refer to Store Inventory Management. 

 page. 

Default Sublocation 

If a default sublocation is configured for the pullbacks/transfers flow, it is updated for units 
processed via RFID pullbacks and transfers. Refer to the configuration section for 
additional information on setting up the default sublocation. 

 
Store-Initiated Transfer 

Store associates can pack store-initiated orders using a handheld RFID reader. Refer to 
the Store-Initiated Transfer process guide for additional information about RFID-based 
store-initiated transfer order packing as well as the Configuration section below. 

Default Sublocation 

If a default sublocation is configured for the store-initiated transfer flow, it is updated 
for units processed via RFID store-initiated transfers. Refer to the configuration section for 
additional information on setting up the default sublocation. 

Adjust Inventory 

Store associates can adjust store inventory using a handheld RFID reader. Refer to 
the Adjust Inventory process guide for additional information about RFID-based inventory 
adjustment as well as the Configuration section below.  

Default Sublocation 

If a default sublocation is configured for the inventory adjustments flow, it is updated 
for units processed via RFID Adjust Inventory. Refer to the configuration section for 
additional information on setting up the default sublocation. 

Replenishment 

With Replenishment functionality, stores that track inventory at the sublocation level can 
automatically generate activities to replenish the front selling area. Configuration defines 
the minimum number of units which should be present for an item in the store's selling 
area. If the inventory drops below this level and the item exists in the non-selling backroom 
area, a replenishment activity is created. 

Store associates use a UI to view the list of items and quantities to replenish to the selling 
area. Movements are completed using a handheld RFID reader.  

Note: The store must count and track inventory at the sublocation level in order to use 
replenishment functionality. 

Refer to the Replenishment guide as well as the Store Count by 
Sublocation and configuration sections of this document for more information. 

Default Sublocation 

The sublocation is updated based on the to sublocation of the replenishment tasks. There 
is no default sublocation configuration.  

Picking - Locate Item 

Store associates can utilize a handheld RFID reader if they need assistance locating an 
item during customer order picking. Based on permissions, a Locate Item action in Prepare 
Pickups and Prepare Shipments directs the user to the closest unit of an item based on 
their current location. Visual and audible indicators increase or decrease depending 
on whether the user is moving closer or farther from the unit. A permission-controlled "next 
tag" action allows the associate to find another unit of the same item which directs them to 
the next closest tag based on their current location. 

The "Locate" feature offers two modes: single tag mode and multi-tag mode. 

Once the user initiates the Locate item function, the reader first searches for eligible tags 
within its range. This is referred to as multi-tag mode and is accompanied by a rapid 
beeping sound. Once at least one tag is found, the reader locks into the tag with the 
strongest signal and begins showing the percentage from 0 to 100%. This is referred to as 
single tag mode and is accompanied by a slower paced beep that changes in frequency as 
the signal percentage increases (faster) or decreases (slower.) 

Note: Tags that exist in the Unit Inventory table in any status other than "Departed" are 
eligible for Locate Item. 

Refer to the Configuration section below for more information as well as the Picking 
process guide. 

View Inventory 

Store associates can utilize a handheld RFID reader to select an item's inventory to view 
instead of scanning a barcode. 

Refer to the Configuration section below for more information as well as the View 
Inventory process guide. 

View Inventory - Locate Item 

Store associates can utilize a handheld RFID reader if they need assistance locating an 
item in the store. Based on permissions, a Locate Item action in View Inventory directs the 
user to the closest unit of an item based on their current location. Visual and audible 
indicators increase or decrease depending on whether the user is moving closer or farther 
from the unit. A permission-controlled "next tag" action allows the associate to find 
another unit of the same item which directs them to the next closest tag based on their 
current location. 

The "Locate" feature offers two modes: single tag mode and multi-tag mode. 

When user selects the locate item to find the inventory of an item, reader searches for tags 
in multi-tag mode with rapid beeping sound. Once it has locked the targeted item unit 
(EPC), it enters into the single tag mode, accompanied by a slower pace beeping 
sound. . The search progress indicator then increases from 0% to 100%. 

Note: Up to 100 tags can be located for an item. Tags except in the "Departed" status are 
eligible to be located. 

Refer to the Configuration section below for more information as well as the View 
Inventory process guide. 

Refer to the permissions required to enable this feature for a user. 

Inventory Runner - Product Requests - Locate Item 

Store associates can utilize a handheld RFID reader if they need assistance locating an 
item in the store. Based on permissions, a Locate Item action in the Product Requests list 
and details UIs directs the user to the closest unit of an item based on their current 
location. Visual and audible indicators increase or decrease depending on whether the 
user is moving closer or farther from the unit. A permission-controlled "next tag" action 
allows the associate to find another unit of the same item which directs them to the next 
closest tag based on their current location. 

The "Locate" feature offers two modes: single tag mode and multi-tag mode. 

When the user selects the locate item to find the inventory of an item, the reader searches 
for tags in multi-tag mode with a rapid beeping sound. Once it has locked the targeted 
item unit (EPC), it enters into the single tag mode, accompanied by a slower-paced beeping 
sound. The search progress indicator then increases from 0% to 100%. 

Note: Up to 100 tags can be located for an item. Tags except the "Departed" status are 
eligible to be located. 

Refer to the configuration section below for more information as well as the Product 
Requests guide.  

Refer to the permissions required to enable this feature for a user. 

Encode RFID Tags 

For situations in which a unit for an item which is RFID tracked arrives at a store untagged 
or the tag becomes lost or damaged, the “Encode RFID Tags” functionality can be used to 
encode and apply a new RFID tag to such units. 

Default Sublocation 

There is no default sublocation updated during the encode RFID process. The user can 
choose the sublocation from a dropdown in the encode RFID tags screen. Refer to 
the Encode RFID Tags page for more details on the process, configuration and permissions. 

Unit Inventory Outbound Events 

Retailers can enable outbound events which are triggered when an update is made to the 
Unit Inventory table for use by their own systems or custom requirements. A configurable 
change detection template defines which columns trigger the outbound event. 

Refer to the Enable Outbound Events section below for more information. 

Exceptions 

If a unit-level tag is damaged or missing or the RFID reader is not available, the EPC ID or 
SGTIN can be scanned by the associate if the barcode is present on the RFID tag. 

The unit inventory entity discards the events update if the event's last read date and time is 
older than the current last read date and time on the unit status. For instance, the unit was 
shipped at 11:30 AM after being packed at 11:01. While the ship event successfully 
changed the unit status from "Available" to "Departed" and updated the last read date and 
time to 11:30 AM, the pack event was stuck in the queue. The unit has already been 
updated with the most recent event, thus the pack event updates are ignored. 

Custom Update - Unit Inventory 

Retailers can update the unit inventory records via a custom process. For example, if the 
retailers are using a custom point of sale and need to update a record in the unit inventory 
after a counter sale, they can do it by using a custom process. 

In the custom process, send a request to the base Store-RFID component to 
add/update unit inventory.  

The Store application does not validate the status of the unit (EPC) when custom updates 
are sent from an external system, For example, if an update is sent for a tag that is already 
in the reserved or departed status, there wont be any errors thrown and the update will be 
successful. 

Mandatory fields when sending the custom request. 

•  EPC ID/SGTIN ID: Either send EPC ID or SGTIN ID in the request. 

•  Location ID: Store or Location ID where the unit is currently present. 

• 

Item ID: The name of the item that is associated with the EPC/SGTIN. 

•  Event: The event that triggers to add/update records in the Unit Inventory. Such as 

pack event, ship event, receive event, etc. 

•  Event time: Last time when a Unit (RFID tag) was read. 

Note: Custom events are not supported.  

Refer to ProActive documentation to know more about the custom process. 

Life Cycle of Unit Inventory 

The table below shows how the status and location of a unit can change over time: 

Scenarios 

Unit ID 

Status 

Store replenishment ASN from DC created for Store 1 and includes the list of EPCs 

EPC 1 

InBound 

Tag read by overhead reader and pre-matched to a pending ASN for store 1 (only 
applicable for stores with overhead readers) 

EPC 1 

Pending Receipt 

Receive in Store 1 

Pack unit in a customer shipment order 

Ship the customer shipment order 

EPC 1  

Available 

EPC 1 

Reserved 

EPC 1 

Departed 

Customer returns the unit to the store (assume return is setup to go back to Available) 

EPC 1 

Available 

Pack unit in a ship to store order to Store 2 

EPC 1  

Reserved 

Ship the ship to store order 

Package marked as missed during receiving 

EPC 1  

InBound 

EPC 1  Missing 

Package was found a few days later and received in Store 2 

EPC 1 

Available 

Scenarios 

Pack unit in a store-initiated transfer to Store 3 

Ship the store-initiated transfer 

Receive in Store 3 

Unit ID 

Status 

EPC 1 

Reserved 

EPC 1 

InBound 

EPC 1 

Available 

Pack for a pullback order (Destination location is Warehouse) 

EPC 1 

Reserved 

Ship the pullback order 

Unit Inventory UI 

EPC 1 

Departed 

Corporate users or admins with necessary permissions can view records in the Unit 
Inventory UI for investigation or troubleshooting of a unit-level tag. Users can filter by EPC, 
SGTIN, store, item ID and inventory status. Details including the status, fulfillment ID, 
package Id, last store event, disposition, last read date/time and coordinates are shown. 

This menu is controlled by a permission. Refer to the Store Common UI Resources page for 
additional information. 

Overhead 

The Store application can integrate with third-party overhead RFID solution providers. This 
integration can yield significant benefits to store operations. For more information on how 
to enable the overhead RFID integration, refer to the Overhead Configuration section 
below. 

Overhead Events 

The overhead RFID solution sends information about each unit’s latest location in the 
store. This unit-level EPC information is regularly passed on to Manhattan Active Omni 
where it is processed and stored.  

Below are the key RFID Unit Inventory attributes related to overhead: 

•  X Coordinate - X coordinate value of location of the unit 

•  Y Coordinate - Y coordinate value of location of the unit 

•  Zone ID - Reference Zone ID of the location where the unit currently resides. 

Optional. 

•  Confidence - Confidence in the overhead RFID read. The higher the confidence, 

the higher the accuracy of the location coordinates captured by the read. Defaulted 
to 100 if not supplied in the event. Optional. 

Note: Movement updates for a unit should be sent from the overhead system only if the 
unit has moved 1 meter or more, and inactivity updates for a unit should be sent no 
more frequently than every 4 hours. Manhattan Active Omni supports receiving overhead 
updates for up to 10 million units per hour across all stores in the network. 

Note: Zone ID is optional and is used only for clustering. For plotting the View Inventory 
Map and the Pick Path Sequence, Manhattan Active® Omni Store Order Fulfillment 
leverages only the X and Y coordinates received as part of the overhead RFID events. If 
Zone ID is supplied as part of the overhead RFID events, the retailer's overhead RFID 
solution provider should ensure its accuracy for clustering to work as expected.  

Overhead Receiving 

As overhead events are received, MAO checks if the tag matches to an expected package 
receipt for the store (regardless of whether a tag feed is in place.) Matched tags are 
updated to "PendingReceipt" status and the corresponding package(s) are pre-loaded on 
the Receiving UI for store associates to review and confirm receipt. Handheld RFID readers 
can be used to capture any tags that were not detected by the overhead reader. 

Similar to standard handheld receiving, associates have the option to discard any pre-
loaded packages in the Receive Inventory UI. Any discarded overhead packages will 
reappear the next time an associate enters the Receive Inventory UI, essentially deferring 
the receipt until a later time. 

Note: Once tags for the package are detected by overhead, it can take up to 5-10 minutes 
for the package to appear on the Receiving UI. In the meantime, associates always have the 
ability to load the package on the UI using a handheld reader. 

Updates 

When an overhead event is received, the tag is updated based on this logic: 

• 

• 

If the tag does not exist in Unit Inventory and matches to an inbound receipt, the 
record is created and updated to “PendingReceipt” status 

If the tag exists in Unit Inventory in “InBound” status and matches to an inbound 
receipt, the record is updated to “PendingReceipt” status. 

• 

If the tag does not exist in Unit Inventory and does not match to an inbound receipt, 
the record is created and updated to “Unexpected” status. 

Refer to the Receiving guide for more information on how the receiving process is 
completed for tags that are read by overhead readers. 

Store Count 

Refer to the Store Count guide for information on how Store Count can leverage RFID 
overhead readers. 

Pick Path Optimization 

With overhead data, picking efficiency can be significantly improved since the picklist is 
generated based on the latest known location of ordered items. The picklist is created 
with an optimized pick sequence and displays the travel path on a map to the associate. 
The map contains all the pick locations to be traversed in relation to the starting point, 
which is configurable. 

Refer to the Picking process guide for more details on how Picking functionality works in the 
Store application. 

View on Map 

The Picking, View Inventory, and Product Requests UIs allow an associate to view the latest 
known location of item inventory on a store layout map. This can be used to find the 
nearest unit of an item, or to locate a unit which isn't where it should be. 

For more details on the View Inventory functionality, refer to its process guide. 

For more details on the Product Requests functionality, refer to its guide.  

Clustering 

Clustering is an optional functionality which groups nearby points together on the map so 
that they are represented as a single point. This can be helpful in improving readability of 
the map, especially on handheld devices. When clustering is enabled, it applies to both 
Picking (pick path optimization) and View Inventory.  

See the clustering example below. Assume the configuration is set to 50 and zone ID is 
passed in the overhead event. 

Before Clustering 

After Clustering 

•  Point 1 (100, 100) in Zone 1 - 1 

•  Point 1 (100,100) 

unit of Item 1 

•  2 units of Item 1 in Zone 

•  Point 2 (105, 101) in Zone 1 - 1 

1 

unit of Item 1 

•  Point 3 (120, 125) in Zone 1 - 1 

unit of Item 2 

•  Point 4 (135, 145) in Zone 2 - 1 

unit of Item 3 

•  1 unit of Item 2 in Zone 1 

•  Point 2 (135,145) in Zone 2 - 1 

unit of Item3 

As a result of clustering, the number of distinct points on the map are reduced from 4 to 2, 
which makes the map less cluttered for the store associates. Even though 1 unit of Item 3 
also falls within the clustering range, it is not aggregated as it lies in a different zone. 

Note: Clustering logic is based on the clustering range that is defined and the unit's zone. If 
a zone is not passed in the overhead events, clustering can still occur but will cluster solely 
based on proximity and will not honor zone boundaries. This may lead to items belonging to 
different zones being clustered together. In the example above, if a zone is not supplied 
as part of the overhead events, all four points will be clustered as one single point.  

Assumptions 

The following limitations apply to overhead RFID: 

• 

• 

In the Picking UI, pause and resume is only supported on the same device. A 
paused pick task must not be resumed on another device. 

If a picklist is printed, items are not grouped by pick locations and appear under the 
"Others" grouping. 

•  The non-RFID Pick Path Optimization capability, detailed here, is not supported 

along with overhead RFID. 

•  Pick to Slot is not supported with overhead RFID. 

•  Once a map is generated, it isn't refreshed. Consequently, it's possible that a unit 
displayed on the map may not be found if it has been picked by another user or 
moved by a customer. 

Phased RFID Enablement 

Store count using RFID can be enabled independently from enabling RFID in other store 
inventory, store fulfillment and point of sale functions. This allows retailers to quickly 
benefit from the improved accuracy of store counts while rolling out additional RFID-based 
store functions in parallel in a phased manner as they are ready. Refer to the Store 
Count guide for additional information. 

In this mode, the expected quantities in store count are obtained from Inventory Supply 
rather than the Unit Inventory table. In the Unit Inventory table, each unit's status is only 
updated during store count and has either status "Available" or "Missing". The capture of 
RFID tags during store operations such as picking, packing, receiving and POS 
transactions is optional and only occurs once the store has enabled RFID for each of those 
functions. 

Refer to the configuration section for additional information. 

Order Lookup to support RFID tag-based Returns 

If a retailer intends to support RFID tag based returns, Store RFID has the capability to 
make a note of the Order IDs when an RFID tagged unit is fulfilled by / sold at a store. When 
this support is enabled, whenever a "Departed" event is generated for any Pickup at Store, 
Ship to Store, Ship to Address, Same Day Delivery, or Store Sale orders, the departed 
unit's RFID tag details are saved along with its Order ID.   

Order lookup for orders fulfilled from DC is also supported. Orders that are shipped from 
the DC have an EPC ID shared on the ship event. This information is then saved into the 
fulfillment detail information on the order. Order can be looked up using EPC ID when the 
order is shipped from the DC in the Order component by using the 
/order/api/order/fulfillmentevent/receive API. This API allows you to receive fulfillment 
events, such as the shipment of an order, and update the status of the order and its 
fulfillment details accordingly. When you receive a shipment event, you can use the EPC ID 
included in the event to look up (search) the order and its associated fulfillment details. 

Note: Store RFID order lookup capability records only those units which are fulfilled by / 
sold at an RFID-enabled store or are shipped from DCs. Orders fulfilled by third party 
vendors are not recorded. 

Tip: Currently, the Manhattan Active suite of Omni channel commerce solutions does not 
support RFID tag based returns out of the box. Order Lookup capability is, however, 
available for integration with external applications. 

Additionally, an API is available for integration with external applications, which accepts 
upto ten returned units' RFID tags' EPC or SGTIN IDs and returns their respective Order IDs. 

The calling application must then integrate with the Order component to confirm if the 
Order IDs returned by the API are eligible for return and proceed with the return order 
creation process accordingly.  

Tip: As with any other returns, Store Associates are advised to verify that the customer's 
details match with those mentioned in the Order fetched using the returned items' RFID tag 
details. 

All records older than 365 days are purged and RFID tag-based returns cannot be 
processed for such orders. If the retailer's policy permits returns beyond this period, such 
returns should be processed using the customer or order details. 

Refer to the configuration section for additional information. 

Refer to configuration of Order Lookup for orders fulfilled from DC: Store RFID 
(helpdocsonline.com) 

Decode Custom EPC Tags 

The Store application allows retailers to decode tags whose encoding does not follow GS1 
standards. By defining a regEx pattern and an itemCode offset for decoding the custom 
EPC/SGTIN, the Store RFID functions can decode the custom encoded tags. 

If the custom decode fails during the decoding process, the system attempts to decode the 
tag using the base decoding flow (based on GS1 standards.) 

Refer to the Configuration section above to understand more about how the regEx and 
offset values can be set. 

Note: Encoding using custom encoded is not supported. Only custom tag decoding is 
supported. 

Note: The custom decode logic supports parsing tags that have a decimal format. Parsing 
of tags encoded in hexadecimal is not supported. 

Configuration 

Ensure that the purposes listed below have been copied from the base profile to 
your custom profile. 

Profile purposes to copy from base to 
custom profile 

sto::storeConfig, srf::rfConfig, 
dvc::rfidReaders 

The RFID configuration below can be enabled to all stores in the organization, or can be 
overridden at the store profile type or location level. Refer to this Config UI guide for 
additional details, and the profile purposes which are listed at the bottom of this page. 

Handheld Configuration 

RFID for Packing 

If this flag is enabled, store associates pack customer shipment orders using handheld 
RFID readers. The default RFID antenna range for packing is set as "Short", but can be 
changed if desired. Based on permissions, store associates can also change the default 
range on the fly.  

The default sublocation is set as null and can be changed to one of the configured 
sublocations.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default. 

Configuration Name: RFID enabled flows. Flow Name: Packing. The default value is set as 
false. 

The default Read Range is "Short". Change the read range if needed. 

The default Sublocation is null. It must be configured with one of the configured 
sublocation values, if subocation is configured. Else leave it blank. 

RFID for Receiving 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can receive using handheld RFID readers. The 
default RFID antenna range for receiving is set as "Medium", but can be changed if desired. 
Based on permissions, store associates can also change the default range on the fly.  

The default sublocation is set as null and can be changed to one of the configured 
sublocations.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default. 

Configuration Name: RFID enabled flows. Flow Name: Receiving. The default value is set as 
false. 

The default Read Range is "Medium". Change the read range if needed. 

The default Sublocation is null. It must be configured with one of the configured 
sublocation values, if sublocation is configured. Else leave it blank. 

RFID for Pickup Orders 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can fulfill BOPIS and Same Day Delivery orders 
using handheld RFID readers. The default RFID antenna range for capturing RFID tags of 
units picked as part of BOPIS and Same Day Delivery orders is set as "Short", but can be 
changed if desired. Based on permissions, store associates can also change the default 
range on the fly.  

The default sublocation is set as null and can be changed to one of the configured 
sublocations.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default. 

Configuration Name: RFID enabled flows. Flow Name: Picking - Prepare Pickups. The 
default value is set as false. 

The default Read Range is "Short". Change the read range if needed. 

The default Sublocation is null. It must be configured with one of the configured 
sublocation values, if sublocation is configured. Else leave it blank. 

RFID for Shipment Orders 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can fulfill shipment orders using handheld RFID 
readers. The default RFID antenna range for capturing RFID tags of units picked as part 
shipment orders is set as "Short", but can be changed if desired. Based on 
permissions, store associates can also change the default range on the fly.  

The default sublocation is set as null and can be changed to one of the configured 
sublocations.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default. 

Configuration Name: RFID enabled flows. Flow Name: Picking - Prepare Shipments. The 
default value is set as false. 

The default Read Range is "Short". Change the read range if needed. 

The default Sublocation is null. It must be configured with one of the configured 
sublocation values, if sublocation is configured. Else leave it blank. 

RFID for Store Count 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can count the store's inventory using handheld RFID 
readers. The default RFID antenna range for store count is set as "Long", but can be 
changed if desired. Based on permissions, store associates can also change the default 
range on the fly.  

The default sublocation is not used for this flow and can be kept as null.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default. 

Configuration Name: RFID enabled flows. Flow Name: Store Count. The default value is set 
as false. 

The default Read Range is "Long". Change the read range if needed. 

RFID for Pullback/Transfer 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can pack pullback/transfer orders using handheld 
RFID readers. The default RFID antenna range for pullback/transfer order packing is set as 
"Short", but can be changed if desired. Based on permissions, store associates can also 
change the default range on the fly.  

The default sublocation is set as null and can be changed to one of the configured 
sublocations.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default. 

Configuration Name: RFID enabled flows. Flow Name: Pullback/Transfer. The default value 
is set as false. 

The default Read Range is "Short". Change the read range if needed. 

The default Sublocation is null. It must be configured with one of the configured 
sublocation values, if sublocation is configured. Else leave it blank. 

RFID for Store-Initiated Transfers 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can pack store-initiated transfer orders using 
handheld RFID readers. The default RFID antenna range for store-initiated transfer order 
packing is set as "Short", but can be changed if desired. Based on permissions, store 
associates can also change the default range on the fly.  

The default sublocation is set as null and can be changed to one of the configured 
sublocations.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default. 

Configuration Name: RFID enabled flows. Flow Name: Store Initiated Transfer. The default 
value is set as false. 

The default Read Range is "Short". Change the read range if needed. 

The default sublocation is null. It must be configured with one of the configured 
sublocation values, if sublocation is configured. Else leave it blank. 

RFID for Adjust Inventory 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can adjust store inventory using handheld RFID 
readers. The default RFID antenna range for inventory adjustment is set as "Short", but can 
be changed if desired. Store associates cannot change the range on the fly. 

The default sublocation is set as null and can be changed to one of the configured 
sublocations.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default.  

Configuration Name: RFID enabled flows. Flow Name: Adjust Inventory. The default value is 
set as false. 

The default Read Range is "Short". Change the read range if needed. 

The default sublocation is null. It must be configured with one of the configured 
sublocation values, if sublocation is configured. Else leave it blank. 

RFID for View Inventory 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can view the item's inventory using handheld RFID 
readers. The default RFID antenna range for inventory adjustment is set as "Short", but can 
be changed if desired. Based on permissions, store associates can also change the default 
range on the fly. 

The default sublocation is not used for this flow and can be kept as null.   

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default.  

Configuration Name: RFID enabled flows. Flow Name: View Inventory. The default value is 
set as false. 

The default Read Range is "Short". Change the read range if needed. 

The default sublocation is null. It must be configured with one of the configured 
sublocation values, if sublocation is configured. Else leave it blank. 

Enable decoding of the item's unit barcode 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can scan the Electronic Product Code (EPC ID) 
or Serialized Global Trade Identification Number (SGTIN) in all SIF UIs which accept item ID 
(regardless of whether RFID is enabled for the flow.) The Store application decodes the 

inputed EPC or SGTIN value to determine the associated item ID. Enabling this flag can be 
useful if the EPC ID or SGTIN barcode is printed on the RFID tag in lieu of a UPC barcode, or 
if the retailer wishes that associates always scan one barcode throughout the application. 

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default.  

Configuration Name: Enable decoding of unit barcode. 

RFID Locate Item for Prepare Pickups 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can use the handheld RFID reader to locate items 
during picking of Pickup orders. Note that for the locate function, the range is automatically 
set to the maximum allowed value by Zebra. So the range value for locate functions is not 
used and can be ignored. 

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default.  

Configuration Name: RFID Locate Item. Flow Name: Picking - Prepare Pickups. The default 
value is set as false. 

RFID Locate Item for Prepare Shipments 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can use the handheld RFID reader to locate items 
during picking of Shipment orders. Note that for the locate function, the range is 
automatically set to the maximum allowed value by Zebra. So the range value for locate 
functions is not used and can be ignored.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default.  

Configuration Name: RFID Locate Item. Flow Name: Picking - Prepare Shipments. The 
default value is set as false. 

RFID Locate Item for View Inventory 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can use the handheld RFID reader to locate items 
requested as part of Inventory Runner - Product Requests. Note that for the locate 
function, the range is automatically set to the maximum allowed value by Zebra. So the 
range value for locate functions is not used and can be ignored. 

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default.  

Configuration Name: RFID Locate Item. Flow Name: View Inventory. The default value is set 
as false. 

RFID Locate Item for Product Requests 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can use the handheld RFID reader to locate items . 
Note that for the locate function, the range is automatically set to the maximum allowed 
value by Zebra. So the range value for locate functions is not used and can be ignored. 

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default.  

Configuration Name: RFID Locate Item. Flow Name: Product Requests. The default value is 
set as false. 

RFID Locate Item for Pullbacks & Transfers 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can use the handheld RFID reader to locate items 
during packing of Pullbacks & Transfers. Note that for the locate function, the range is 
automatically set to the maximum allowed value by Zebra. So the range value for locate 
functions is not used and can be ignored.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default.  

Configuration Name: RFID Locate Item. Flow Name: Pullbacks & Transfers . The default 
value is set as false. 

Phased RFID Enablement 

This allows a retailer to begin perform RFID store counts before enabling RFID across their 
other store functions. If this flag is enabled, the expected count for store count is obtained 
from inventory supply rather than the Unit Inventory table. This flag is intended only for 
customers who wish to begin using Store Count but do not have all of their store processes 
enabled for RFID. Once all processes are enabled for RFID, this flag should be disabled so 
that the typical store count from the Unit Inventory table occurs. 

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Configuration UI and is disabled by default.  

Configuration Name: Load Expected Value From Supply. The default value is set as false. 

Replenishment 

If this flag is enabled, store associates can use the handheld RFID reader to replenish 
inventory from a non-selling area to a selling area. The default RFID antenna range for RFID 
Replenishment is set as "Short", but it can be changed if desired. Based on 
permissions, store associates can also change the default range on the fly.  

The default sublocation is not used for this flow and can be kept as null.  

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Parameters UI and is disabled by default. 

Counting by Sublocation 

If sublocations are defined for the store, Store Count operates in sublocation mode. 
Sublocations can be created at organization, store or store profile level. When a 
sublocation is created, a sublocation type ('Selling Area' and 'Non-Selling Area') must be 
assigned.  

This configuration is available in the sublocation  UI and is disabled by default. 

Overhead Configuration 

Use overhead RFID data to plot Store Inventory on map 

This configuration controls whether the overhead RFID integration is enabled. This flag is 
available in the Details tab of the Store Fulfillment Parameters and must be enabled to 
leverage the pick path optimization or view on map functionalities. 

Configuration Name: Use overhead RFID data to plot the Store Inventory on a map. The 
default value is set as false. 

Store Layout 

To enable the pick path optimization and the view inventory map overhead RFID functions 
in the Manhattan Active® Omni Store app, every store where these functions are to be 
enabled should have its layout configured. As a pre-requisite, the store layout configured in 
MA Omni should be in sync with the overhead reader so that the coordinates relayed by the 
overhead are in alignment with the layout. There are two ways of defining a store layout in 
MA Omni. 

Option 1 - Coordinate-based store layout 

A typical store layout consists of zones (sections within a store) where the inventory is 
present. The shape of a store and its zones are defined by a collection of points indicated 
by their coordinates. This section explains how a store layout can be configured by defining 
its coordinates. 

The following are the key attributes defined as part of a store layout: 

•  LocationId - Location ID of the store for which the layout is being defined 

•  StoreLayoutId - Unique identifier of the layout 

•  Zone.ParentZoneId - Defines the nesting of zones which is used to place a zone 

inside another one. A zone without a parent represents the outer layout of a store. 
Only one zone without a parent is allowed per store. 

•  Zone.Point.XCoordinate - The value of x coordinate which represents a point in the 

zone 

•  Zone.Point.YCoordinate - The value of y coordinate which represents a point in the 

zone 

•  Zone.Point.SequenceNumber - Define the sequence of the points of the zone in a 
clockwise or counter-clockwise manner, and use the same consistent manner for 
all zones in the layout. As an example, let's consider a Coats and Jackets zone which 
extends from A (0, 0), B (200, 0), C (200, 200), and D (0, 200). If you choose to 
sequence the points in a counter-clockwise direction, the sequence of the points A, 
B, C, D should be 1, 2, 3, 4. If choosing the clockwise direction, the sequence 
numbers of the points A, B, C, D should be 1, 4, 3, 2.  

•  ZoneId - Name of the zone which is displayed to the associates on the store layout 

map (i.e., Dressing Room 1, Men's Apparel, etc.) 

Tip: Defining co-ordinate points in multiples of 100 for each unit, helps with better 
rendering of the map. For example, a store can be setup as A(0,0), B(0,1000), C 
(1000,1000), D (1000,0). Men's zone can be A (200,0), B (200,200), C (400, 200), D (400,0). A 
shirt can be located at (250, 100) 

There is no UI to enter Store Layout configuration. Use the POST API below to configure 
store layouts. 

{{url}}/storerfid/api/storerfid/rfStoreLayout/save 

Refer to the "Set up store layout" page of the Store RFID integration guide in the Manhattan 
Developer Hub for a sample payload which can be used to create a new Store Layout in the 
Store application with the help of its coordinates. 

Option 2 - Upload a store layout image 

This section explains how a store layout file can be directly and seamlessly imported into 
Manhattan Active® Omni. For this functionality to work, the file should adhere to the 
following guidelines: 

1.  It should be an SVG file with a recommended size of 500 KB and a maximum size of 

1 MB. 

2.  It should have a view box, comprising both maxima and minima, defined for both 

the X and Y axes. 

3.  It should be zipped 

4.  It should be configured individually for each store. As a corollary, a zipped folder 

should comprise only one SVG file. 

Note: If a Mac machine is used to create the zip file, it must be ensured that the MACOSX 
file is removed from the zipped folder before uploading it into Manhattan Active® Omni. 

The following information is needed to upload a store layout. 

•  LocationId - The unique identifier for a store that is configured in MA Omni 

•  File - A zipped folder comprising the store layout file in the SVG format upto a 

maximum of 1 MB in size 

There is no UI to upload the store layout. Use the POST API below to upload the required 
store layouts. 

{{url}}/storerfid/api/storerfid/storeLayout/upload 

Refer to the "Upload store layout image" page of the Store RFID integration guide in the 
Manhattan Developer Hub for detailed information on how a store layout can be uploaded. 
Additionally, refer to the Developer Hub to get to know about the APIs which can be used 
to validate if an SVG store layout has been uploaded for a given location, to delete an 
uploaded store layout file's association with its location, and to view the file uploaded for a 
given location. 

Note: Currently, only single floor stores are supported in both the above approaches. 
Stores with multiple floors are not supported. 

Overhead Read Expiry Threshold 

Refer to the Store Count guide for configuration information. 

Range to be used for clustering in the overhead RFID store layout 

This configuration resides in the Store Overhead RFID Configuration subsection of the 
Store RFID Configuration. A value > 0 directs the system to cluster all the locations that 
fall within the specified range. To disable clustering, set the range to 0 or null. 

Configuration Name: Range to be used for clustering in the overhead RFID store layout. The 
default value is set as null, which implies that clustering is disabled. 

Origin of Store Layout 

The coordinate relationship that is used by the third-party overhead RFID system must be 
mirrored in Manhattan Active® Store in order for the inventory data and store layout to 
display properly on the UI. This configuration in the header of the Store RFID 

Configuration defines the origin of the map used in the Store application. Supported 
origins are Top Left and Bottom Left (default for coordinate-based store layouts). Based on 
the value configured, the store UI manipulates the coordinates in such a way that the 
orientation of the layout on the vendor's store layout creation UI and the MA Store UI are 
the same. 

Configuration Name: Origin of Store Layout. The default value is Bottom Left for 
coordinate-based store layouts.  

Note: This configuration applies to coordinate-based store layouts only. For SVG image 
based store layouts, the only origin supported is Top Left. It is imperative to ensure that 
both the retailer's overhead RFID solution provider and the MA Store app use the origin as 
the top left corner of the uploaded store layout. 

X and Y coordinates of the starting point in the overhead RFID store layout 

A configurable location (such as a packing station or POS station) can be used as the 
starting point of the picker by specifying its X and Y coordinates. This is the point from 
where the picking is assumed to begin and is one of the critical factors considered in the 
generation of the optimized pick path which is suggested to the store associate. If these 
coordinate values are not specified, the values (0,0) are used. 

This configuration resides in the Store Overhead RFID Configuration sub-section of the 
Store RFID Configuration. 

Configuration Name: X coordinate of the starting point in the overhead RFID store layout. 
The default value is null, which is internally considered as 0. 

Configuration Name: Y coordinate of the starting point in the overhead RFID store layout. 
The default value is null, which is internally considered as 0. 

Order Lookup to support RFID tag-based Returns Config 

The following configuration, if enabled, ensures that the units fulfilled by / sold at an RFID 
enabled store are noted down so that an external application can determine the Order ID(s) 
associated with the RFID tag(s) fastened on the item(s) being returned. If this configuration 
is disabled, the departed units aren't recorded and if the provided API is called, a 'feature 
disabled' validation error is returned. In essence, enabling this configuration is a pre-
requisite for facilitating RFID tag-based returns in stores. 

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Configuration UI and is disabled by 
default.  

Configuration Name: Support Order lookup using RFID tag data 

Note: Owing to the large amount of data which may end up getting recorded in the Store 
RFID component, Manhattan Associates advises that this configuration is enabled only if 
an external application intends to support RFID tag based returns.  

Order Lookup to support orders shipped from DC with an EPC 

The below configuration, is applicable for order lookup for the orders fulfilled from DC. If 
enabled, it ensures that the units fulfilled from a DC are noted down so that an external 
application can determine the Order ID(s) associated with the RFID tag(s) fastened on the 
item(s) being shipped. If this configuration is disabled, the shipped units aren't recorded 
and if the provided API is called, a 'feature disabled' validation error is returned. 

Orders that are shipped from the DC have an EPC ID shared on the ship event. This 
information is then saved into the fulfillment detail information on the order. Order can be 
looked up using EPC ID when the order is shipped from the DC in the Order component by 
using the /order/api/order/fulfillmentevent/receive API. This API allows you to receive 
fulfillment events, such as the shipment of an order, and update the status of the order and 
its fulfillment details accordingly. When you receive a shipment event, you can use the EPC 
ID included in the event to look up (search) the order and its associated fulfillment details. 

This configuration is available in the Store RFID Configuration UI and is disabled by 
default.  

RFID Reader Setting Configuration 

This configuration is available in the RFID Reader Settings UI and is enabled by default 
with base seed data.  

1.  If the RFID reader performs well across the various RFID flows using the base 

seeded RFID reader settings, no configuration is needed. 

2.  If the RFID reader does not perform as expected using the base seed data, change 
any of the base settings by editing the record and updating the key value in the UI. 

3.  To create override configuration records so that a particular device type or flow ID 
uses different settings than the wildcard records, create new override records with 
the desired device type or flow ID override values. 

•  For device type and flow ID, null represents a wildcard value. Device type is 
free text and must be entered as "RFD8500" or "RFD40" for the respective 
Zebra readers. Key values are also free text. Refer to Zebra's documentation 
for these supported values for Android and iOS, respectively. 

 
Note: All key values are case-insensitive. 

Key 

Key Value 

Link Profile Index  0 

Session 

1 

Tag Population 

30 

Inventory State 

a 

slFlag 

all 

Dynamic Power 

enabled 

Enable Outbound events 

When the status or any fields on the Unit Inventory entity change, an outbound message 
can be triggered. The outbound event generation is based on the following main 
configuration: 

{{url}}/storerfid/api/eventProducer/eventStrategy/save 

{ "ProfileId": "base", "data": [ { "EntityStrategyId": "UnitInventoryStatusStrategy", 
"IsRuleRequired": false, "EntityId": "UnitInventory", "Active": false, "IsOldValuesRequired": 
true, "DetectionTemplateId": "UnitInventoryOutboundEventDetectionTemplate", 
"Component": "com-manh-cp-storerfid", "TemplateId": 
"UnitInventoryOutboundEventTemplate", "MessageType": 
"UnitInventoryOutboundEventMSGType" } ] } 

 Attributes of the eventStrategy.json are explained below. 

IsRuleRequired 

Default value is false 

If the requirement is to send an event only when the status has a specific value, set this to true. 
When true, this needs to be followed by multiple other configurations where you will specify rules that get 
executed by the rule framework, etc., 

Active 

By default this is disabled. This value should be set to "True" to get the outbound event based on updates in the 
unit inventory entity. 

IsOldValuesRequired 

This is currently enabled. If a change set with old values is not required, this can be disabled. 

"EntityId": "UnitInventory" 

The entity that is generating the events is specified here. 

DetectionTemplateId 

A template specified here with a set of fields will be used to determine what fields on the entity can generate 
events. 

The UnitInventoryOutboundEventDetectionTemplate template determines when to trigger 
an event. The out of the box base template is listed below and is configured to generate 
events only when the EPC's status changes. To generate an event based on updates to 
other columns, add those columns to the detection template or create a separate event 
strategy for that column as needed. 

responseTemplate.json - {{url}}/storerfid/api/fwcore/responseTemplate/save 

{ "TemplateId": "UnitInventoryOutboundEventDetectionTemplate", "BaseEntity": 
"UnitInventory", "TemplateJson": { "UnitId": null, "Status": null } } 

The UnitInventoryOutboundEventTemplate template is applied to the message sent to the 
queue. Only the fields specified in this template will be posted to the queue. The base 
response template UnitInventoryOutboundEventTemplate that is supplied out of the box is 
as follows 

responseTemplate.json - {{url}}/storerfid/api/fwcore/responseTemplate/save 

{ "TemplateId": "UnitInventoryOutboundEventTemplate", "BaseEntity": "UnitInventory", 
"TemplateJson": { "UnitId": null, "EpcId": null, "ItemId": null, "Sgtin": null, "Status": null, 
"LocationId": null, "LastReadDateTime": null } } 

This specifies the queue to which the message will be published. The base 
messageType UnitInventoryEventOutboundMSGType is defined as follows 

outboundMessageType.json - 
{{url}}/storerfid/api/ServiceDefinition/outBoundMessageType/save 

{ "MessageType": "UnitInventoryOutboundEventMSGType", "Description": "Unit Inventory 
Outbound Event MSG Type", "Transactional": true, "PersistMessageToMsgStore": false, 
"OutBoundQueues": [ { "QueueName": "UnitInventoryOutboundEventMSGType" } ] } 

Tag Decode Configuration 

The tag decode configuration is set false by default. If configured, then system expects 
records for EPC and SGTIN with unique decode IDs. The tag decode configuration consists 
of the following parameters: 

•  Decode Id - Unique identifier of the tag. Examples : D001. 

•  Tag Decode Configuration - Type of the tag, could be either EPC or SGTIN 

•  RegEx Pattern - Custom tag decode regex pattern to validate the number. Examples 

- ^[0-9A-Fa-f]+$ 

• 

Item Code Offset - Item Barcode offset values i.e. Start and End offsets of 
RegexPattern of DecodeType. Examples: 2,16. The offset is defined starting 0. For 
example, for this  

Troubleshooting 

Issue 

Troubleshooting Tip 

Ensure that the latest app is installed on the device on which 
the issue is being encountered. 

Overhead RFID 
functionalities do 
not work as expected 
even after enabling 
the required 
configuration in the 
Store Fulfillment 
Parameters and 
Store RFID 
Configuration. 

Incorrect EPC is 
created in unit 
inventory 

Records in unit inventory can be deleted using this API: 

Endpoint: 
storerfid/api/storerfid/unitInventory/deleteUnitInventory 

Copy to clipboardCopy to clipboardCopy to clipboardCopy to 
clipboardCopy to clipboard 

Payload:  

Issue 

Troubleshooting Tip 

{ 

    "EpcIds": [ 

        "303401BF841E4282540BE42E" 

    ] 

}Copy to clipboardCopy to clipboardCopy to clipboardCopy to 
clipboardCopy to clipboard 

For more details, refer to Developer Portal  

Resource: api::storerfid::unitinventory::deleteunitinventory  

Please retry. Contact Manhattan Associates if the issue 
persists. 

Please retry. Contact Manhattan Associates if the issue 
persists.  

While the issue is being resolved, you may use the native OS 
capabilities to connect to or disconnect from a device. 

Ensure that the device that you are trying to connect to is 
switched on and Bluetooth turned on. 

"Unable to fetch 
device details" error 
in the Connected 
Device panel while 
trying to view the 
connected RFID 
reader details 

"Couldn't fetch 
available devices. 
Please retry!" error in 
the Available 
Devices panel while 
trying to manage the 
available RFID 
readers 

"Couldn't connect to 
the device. Ensure 
the device is 
powered on with 

     
Issue 

Troubleshooting Tip 

Bluetooth enabled." 
error while trying to 
connect to a reader 
in the Available 
Devices panel 

"Couldn't 
disconnect. You may 
retry here or using 
your OS native 
capability." while 
trying to disconnect 
from the currently 
connected device 

"No available 
devices found. You 
must have at least 1 
reader paired to your 
device." while trying 
to manage the 
available RFID 
readers 

Custom Screens 

Please retry. Contact Manhattan Associates if the issue 
persists. 

While the issue is being resolved, you may use the native OS 
capabilities to disconnect from the currently connected device. 

Ensure that the device that you want to connect to has been 
successfully paired to your Store device and then try to connect 
to it using the Store app. 

Retailers can use the RFID reader on custom screens and base screens if the base screen 
does not, by default, support it. Refer to the Store RFID - Custom screen guide for 
additional information. 

Custom Devices 

Retailers can use other than base-certified RFID readers to read the RFID tags in the store 
application. Refer to the Store RFID - Custom Devices guide for additional information. 

Unit Inventory Events 

Below is the list of events and the corresponding EPC status update that occurs. 

Event Name 

EPC Status updated to 

ShippedToAddress 

Departed 

Picked 

Packed 

CancelPack 

Reserved 

Reserved 

Available 

ShippedToStore 

InBound 

ShipConfirmation 

InBound 

Received 

Available 

MissingDuringReceive 

Missing 

StoreSale 

Adjustment 

Removed 

StoreReturn 

StorePickup 

Departed 

Available 

Removed 

Available 

Departed 

Overhead 

Pending Receipt/Unexpected 

EncodeTag 

Available 

UIs and Entities 

The configuration UIs mentioned in this document are listed in the following table. This 
information can be used to navigate to API documentation and also specifies whether the 
configuration can be overridden at the location level. 

UI Name 

Component Group 

Store RFID 
Parameters 

Store 
Facade 

Store RFID 
Configurati
on 

Store 
RFID 

Store 
Fulfillment 
Parameters 

Fulfillme
nt 

Store 
Config 
Services 

RF 
Paramete
rs 

Fulfillmen
t 
Paramete
rs 

Seed 
Data 
Present
? 

Seed 
Data 
Profile 

Yes 

Yes 

Bas
e 

Bas
e 

Profile Purpose 

Is Profile 
Purpose 
Location 
Overrideabl
e? 

sto::storeConfig 

Yes 

srf::rfConfig 

Yes 

Yes 

Bas
e 

ful::fulfillmentCon
fig 

Yes 

Device 

Manage 
Devices 

Yes 

Bas
e 

dvc::rfidReaders 

Yes 

RFID 
Reader 
Settings 
MUP UI 

 
